The dashboard incorporates a total of 5 datasets. 
- The initial dataset 7.1.1, measuring "access to electricity 
(% of the population)" encompasses two sub-datasets: "access to electricity (% of rural population)" 
and "access to electricity (% of urban population)" all sourced from the World Development Indicator 
(The Energy Progress Report). 
- The second dataset 7.2.1a focuses on "renewable energy consumption 
(% of the total energy consumption)” obtained from the World Bank data catalogue.  
- The third dataset 7.2.1b shows the energy requirement vs availability chart showing the surplus/deficit 
each year which was sourced from Central Electricity Authority of India. 
- The fourth dataset 7.2.1c 
shows us the existing installed capacity of Power Stations in each state of India in Megawatts, which 
was obtained from the National Power Portal of India. 
- The fifth dataset 12.a.1, "renewable 
energy-generating capacity," was derived from the Central Electricity Authority of India (Annual 
Generation Report). 
The datasets were created to serve as a guide to monitor India's progress towards the United Nations’ 
SDGs, specifically SDGs 7 and 12. It aids interested parties in carrying out analysis and drawing 
conclusions based on their specified inputs.  
Data sets 1, 2 and 5 analyse the access of the population to electricity through renewable sources. Data 
sets 3 and 4 were selected to provide insight into the limitations that exist in the renewable energy
generating capacity in India. All collected data sets provide a clear view of the data concerning the 
client's needs. Data sets 1 and 2 describe the data in percent (%) floating values, whereas Data sets 3, 
4 and 5 describe the dataset in integers as well as floating points. The data sets are normalized to years, 
indicators, and country. 


The heat map showed that 3 states in India (Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand) have a low 
renewable energy generation capacity, with the lowest figure at 4.43%. It also showed that three of 
the states have a high thermal generating capacity, i.e., the generation and usage of sources such as 
diesel, coal, and more are remarkably high in comparison to the generation and usage of renewable 
energy sources.  
Therefore, it is recommended that the most viable option for ReNew Power to invest in and get an 
optimum return on investment would be to invest in the increment of the generating capacity of the 
underserved areas. The market area is presumed to be untapped, with the right resources and the new 
partnership Renew Power has with other stakeholders in the market, it is a viable option. 
Alternatively, Renew Power can also invest in states that have high thermal generating capacity, such 
as (Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh). 
Although their renewable generating capacity 
percentage is moderate, with an average ratio of 28%. A strategic approach would be to cut down on 
thermal usage and increase the use of renewable energy sources. These states have more resources to 
scale their renewable capacity as they have manufacturing hubs and are observed to have a high 
demand for cleaner electricity. Therefore, if Renew Power is inclined to carry out high-scale work, 
the identified states would be the most suitable options.
